# Lennox S40 Stability Issues

## Overview

The lennox firmware update 04.20.0107 has created stability issues for the integration. THe root cause appears to be a bug introduced by Lennox that causes the HTTPS communication stack to become non-responsive when applications disconnect from the thermostat.

The errors reported look like this:

```
async_setup unexpected error login failed due to client response error [https://192.168.10.61/Endpoints/ha_s40_down/Connect] ClientResponseError Error while executing request: [Content-Length can't be present with Transfer-Encoding]:
```

These errors typically occur when HASS is restarted. Avoid restarting HASS when you are not physically located where you can reset the thermostat.

## Recovery

1. Make sure you are on the current version of this integration.
2. Shutdown HASS
3. Go to the thermostat panels and use the menu options to restart the panel
4. Startup HASS
5. Verify the entities are available

## Reoccurence

There are users that do not have this issue, there are users that have had the issue and no longer do, and there are users who have the issue happen regularly. We are working to gather information to determine the specific items that cause this to occur.

If you regularly encounter this issue, please try this:

1. Do not use the mobile app and delete it from your phone.
2. Block the S40 from communicating with the Lennox Cloud. The relay_server binary_sensor shows the status. Once you have your firewall configured to prevent outgoing traffic on the S40, restart the Thermostat.

Periodically unblock the thermostat and check for firmware updates. The S40 does report crashes back to lennox via the cloud connection and lennox has fixed issues; so I expect them to be aware of this and have an update. Please post the results of your firmware update.

## Reporting Issues

Please report the issues you see with the S40, we are looking for the root cause. Please be specific with your reports and include:

- When did the issue manifest (I restarted HASS, HASS lost connection and tried to reconnect, etc.)
- Please include the full set of errors reported in the log
- Please indicate if you have / use the mobile app; if the system is internet connected; and any other details that may be useful.

## Help Needed

If you have an S40 and have some development, network, REST API expertise; please see if you can find a pattern to reproduce the issue. I do not have an S40; otherwise I would be doing this. An S40 costs about $1000 USD, if I can get enough donations; I'd be happy to have one to work on this.
